Genesis 2:4 (a,b)
a: These are the records of the skies and the earth when they were created
b: In the day that YHWH made eath and skies
אֵ֣לֶּה תֽוֹלְד֧וֹת הַשָּׁמַ֛יִם וְהָאָ֖רֶץ בְּהִ֣בָּֽרְאָ֑ם 
בְּי֗וֹם עֲשׂ֛וֹת יְהֹוָ֥ה אֱלֹהִ֖ים אֶ֥רֶץ וְשָׁמָֽיִם
Genesis 7:16 (a,b)
a: And those that came were male and female; some from all flesh came, as God had commanded him.
b: And YHWH close it for him
וְהַבָּאִ֗ים זָכָ֨ר וּנְקֵבָ֤ה מִכָּל־בָּשָׂר֙ בָּ֔אוּ כַּֽאֲשֶׁ֛ר צִוָּ֥ה אֹת֖וֹ אֱלֹהִ֑ים 
וַיִּסְגֹּ֥ר יְהֹוָ֖ה בַּֽעֲדֽוֹ
Genesis 8:2 (a,b)
a: And the fountains of the deep and the apertures of the skies were shut,
b: And the rain was restrained from the skies.
וַיִּסָּֽכְרוּ֙ מַעְיְנֹ֣ת תְּה֔וֹם וַֽאֲרֻבֹּ֖ת הַשָּׁמָ֑יִם 
וַיִּכָּלֵ֥א הַגֶּ֖שֶׁם מִן־הַשָּׁמָֽיִם
Genesis 8:3 (a,b)
a: And the waters went back from on the eath, going back continualy,
b: And the water receded at the end of a hundred fifty days.
וַיָּשֻׁ֧בוּ הַמַּ֛יִם מֵעַ֥ל הָאָ֖רֶץ הָל֣וֹךְ וָשׁ֑וֹב 
וַיַּחְסְר֣וּ הַמַּ֔יִם מִקְצֵ֕ה חֲמִשִּׁ֥ים וּמְאַ֖ת יֽוֹם
Genesis 8:13 (a,b)
a: And it was in the six hundred and first year, in the first month, in the first of the month: the water dried from on earth.
b: And Noah turned back the covering of the ark and looked, and here the face of the earth had dried.
וַיְהִ֠י בְּאַחַ֨ת וְשֵֽׁשׁ־מֵא֜וֹת שָׁנָ֗ה בָּֽרִאשׁוֹן֙ בְּאֶחָ֣ד לַחֹ֔דֶשׁ חָֽרְב֥וּ הַמַּ֖יִם מֵעַ֣ל הָאָ֑רֶץ 
וַיָּ֤סַר נֹ֨חַ֙ אֶת־מִכְסֵ֣ה הַתֵּבָ֔ה וַיַּ֕רְא וְהִנֵּ֥ה חָֽרְב֖וּ פְּנֵ֥י הָֽאֲדָמָֽה
Genesis 10:1 (a,b)
a: And these are the records of Noah's sons, Shem, Ham, and Yaphets:'
b: And children were born to them after the flood.
וְאֵ֨לֶּה֙ תּֽוֹלְדֹ֣ת בְּנֵי־נֹ֔חַ שֵׁ֖ם חָ֣ם וָיָ֑פֶת 
וַיִּוָּֽלְד֥וּ לָהֶ֛ם בָּנִ֖ים אַחַ֥ר הַמַּבּֽוּל
Genesis 11:10 (a,b)
a: These are the records of Shem:
b: Shem was a hundred years old, and he fathered Arpachshad, two years after the flood.
אֵ֚לֶּה תּֽוֹלְדֹ֣ת שֵׁ֔ם 
שֵׁ֚ם בֶּן־מְאַ֣ת שָׁנָ֔ה וַיּ֖וֹלֶד אֶת־אַרְפַּכְשָׁ֑ד שְׁנָתַ֖יִם אַחַ֥ר הַמַּבּֽוּל
Genesis 11:27 (a,b)
a: And these are the records of Terah:
b: Terah had fathered Abram, Nahor, and Haran, and Haran had fathered Lot.
וְאֵ֨לֶּה֙ תּֽוֹלְדֹ֣ת תֶּ֔רַח 
תֶּ֚רַח הוֹלִ֣יד אֶת־אַבְרָ֔ם אֶת־נָח֖וֹר וְאֶת־הָרָ֑ן וְהָרָ֖ן הוֹלִ֥יד אֶת־לֽוֹט
Genesis 12:4 (a,b)
a: And Abram went as YHWH had spoken to him, and Lot went with him
b: And Abram was seventy-five years old when he went out from Haran
וַיֵּ֣לֶךְ אַבְרָ֗ם כַּֽאֲשֶׁ֨ר דִּבֶּ֤ר אֵלָיו֙ יְהֹוָ֔ה וַיֵּ֥לֶךְ אִתּ֖וֹ ל֑וֹט 
וְאַבְרָ֗ם בֶּן־חָמֵ֤שׁ שָׁנִים֙ וְשִׁבְעִ֣ים שָׁנָ֔ה בְּצֵאת֖וֹ מֵֽחָרָֽן
Genesis 13:11 (a,b)
a: And Lot chose all the plain of the Jordan for himself, and Lot traveled east.
b: And they separated each from his brother.
וַיִּבְחַר־ל֣וֹ ל֗וֹט אֵ֚ת כָּל־כִּכַּ֣ר הַיַּרְדֵּ֔ן וַיִּסַּ֥ע ל֖וֹט מִקֶּ֑דֶם 
וַיִּפָּ֣רְד֔וּ אִ֖ישׁ מֵעַ֥ל אָחִֽיו
Genesis 13:12 (a,b)
a: Abram lived in the land of Canaan, and Lot lived in the cities of the plain.
b: And he tented as far as Sodom
אַבְרָ֖ם יָשַׁ֣ב בְּאֶֽרֶץ־כְּנָ֑עַן וְל֗וֹט יָשַׁב֙ בְּעָרֵ֣י הַכִּכָּ֔ר 
וַיֶּֽאֱהַ֖ל עַד־סְדֹֽם
Genesis 21:1 (a,b)
a: And YHWH had taken account of Sarah as He had said,
b: and YHWH did to Sarah as He has spoken.
וַֽיהֹוָ֛ה פָּקַ֥ד אֶת־שָׂרָ֖ה כַּֽאֲשֶׁ֣ר אָמָ֑ר 
וַיַּ֧עַשׂ יְהֹוָ֛ה לְשָׂרָ֖ה כַּֽאֲשֶׁ֥ר דִּבֵּֽר
Genesis 21:2 (a,b)
a: And Sarah became pregnant and gave birth to a son for Abraham in his old age
b: at the appointed time that God had spoken.
וַתַּ֩הַר֩ וַתֵּ֨לֶד שָׂרָ֧ה לְאַבְרָהָ֛ם בֵּ֖ן 
לִזְקֻנָ֑יו לַמּוֹעֵ֕ד אֲשֶׁר־דִּבֶּ֥ר אֹת֖וֹ אֱלֹהִֽים
Genesis 25:8 (a,b)
a: And he expired
b: And Abraham died at a good age, old and full, and was gathered to his people.
וַיִּגְוַ֨ע 
וַיָּ֧מָת אַבְרָהָ֛ם בְּשֵׂיבָ֥ה טוֹבָ֖ה זָקֵ֣ן וְשָׂבֵ֑עַ וַיֵּאָ֖סֶף אֶל־עַמָּֽיו
Genesis 25:11 (a,b)
a: And it was after Abraham's death, and God blessed Isaac, his son.'
b: And Isaac lived at the well Lahai-roi
וַיְהִ֗י אַֽחֲרֵי֙ מ֣וֹת אַבְרָהָ֔ם וַיְבָ֥רֶךְ אֱלֹהִ֖ים אֶת־יִצְחָ֣ק בְּנ֑וֹ 
וַיֵּ֣שֶׁב יִצְחָ֔ק עִם־בְּאֵ֥ר לַחַ֖י רֹאִֽי
Genesis 28:11 (a,b)
a: And he happened upon a place and stayed the night there because the sun was setting.
b: And he took from the stones of the place and set it as his headrest and lay down in that place.
וַיִּפְגַּ֨ע בַּמָּק֜וֹם וַיָּ֤לֶן שָׁם֙ כִּי־בָ֣א הַשֶּׁ֔מֶשׁ 
וַיִּקַּח֙ מֵֽאַבְנֵ֣י הַמָּק֔וֹם וַיָּ֖שֶׂם מְרַֽאֲשֹׁתָ֑יו וַיִּשְׁכַּ֖ב בַּמָּק֥וֹם הַהֽוּא
Genesis 30:1 (a,b)
a: And Rachel saw that she had not given birth for Jacob.
b: And Rachel was jealous of her sister, and she said to Jacob, "Give me children. And if not I'm dying!"
וַתֵּ֣רֶא רָחֵ֗ל כִּ֣י לֹ֤א יָֽלְדָה֙ לְיַֽעֲקֹ֔ב 
וַתְּקַנֵּ֥א רָחֵ֖ל בַּֽאֲחֹתָ֑הּ וַתֹּ֤אמֶר אֶל־יַֽעֲקֹב֙ הָֽבָה־לִּ֣י בָנִ֔ים וְאִם־אַ֖יִן מֵתָ֥ה אָנֹֽכִי
Genesis 30:4 (a,b)
a: And she gave him Bilhah, her maid, as a wife.
b: And Jacob came to her.
וַתִּתֶּן־ל֛וֹ אֶת־בִּלְהָ֥ה שִׁפְחָתָ֖הּ לְאִשָּׁ֑ה 
וַיָּבֹ֥א אֵלֶ֖יהָ יַֽעֲקֹֽב
Genesis 30:24 (a,b)
a: And calles his name Joseph,
b: Saying, "May YHWH add another son to me."
וַתִּקְרָ֧א אֶת־שְׁמ֛וֹ יוֹסֵ֖ף 
לֵאמֹ֑ר יֹסֵ֧ף יְהֹוָ֛ה לִ֖י בֵּ֥ן אַחֵֽר
Genesis 37:2 (a,b)
a: These are the records of Jacob:
b: Joseph, at seventeen years old, had been tending the sheep with his brothers, and he was a boy with the sons of Bilhah and hte sons of Zilpah, his father's wives'; and Joseph brought a bad report of them to their father.
אֵ֣לֶּה תֹּֽלְד֣וֹת יַֽעֲקֹ֗ב 
יוֹסֵ֞ף בֶּן־שְׁבַע־עֶשְׂרֵ֤ה שָׁנָה֙ הָיָ֨ה רֹעֶ֤ה אֶת־אֶחָיו֙ בַּצֹּ֔אן וְה֣וּא נַ֗עַר אֶת־בְּנֵ֥י בִלְהָ֛ה וְאֶת־בְּנֵ֥י זִלְפָּ֖ה נְשֵׁ֣י אָבִ֑יו וַיָּבֵ֥א יוֹסֵ֛ף אֶת־דִּבָּתָ֥ם רָעָ֖ה אֶל־אֲבִיהֶֽם
Genesis 37:3 (a,b)
a: And Israel had loved Joseph most of all his children because he was a son of old age to him.
b: And he made him a coat of many colors.
וְיִשְׂרָאֵ֗ל אָהַ֤ב אֶת־יוֹסֵף֙ מִכָּל־בָּנָ֔יו כִּֽי־בֶן־זְקֻנִ֥ים ה֖וּא ל֑וֹ 
וְעָ֥שָׂה ל֖וֹ כְּתֹ֥נֶת פַּסִּֽים
Genesis 37:25 (a,b)
a: And they sat down to east bread.
b: And they raised their eyes and saw, and here was a caravan of Ishmaelites coming from Gilead, and their camels were carrying spices and balsam and myrrh, going to bring them down to Egypt.
וַיֵּֽשְׁבוּ֘ לֶֽאֱכָל־לֶחֶם֒ 
וַיִּשְׂא֤וּ עֵֽינֵיהֶם֙ וַיִּרְא֔וּ וְהִנֵּה֙ אֹֽרְחַ֣ת יִשְׁמְעֵאלִ֔ים בָּאָ֖ה מִגִּלְעָ֑ד וּגְמַלֵּיהֶ֣ם נֹֽשְׂאִ֗ים נְכֹאת֙ וּצְרִ֣י וָלֹ֔ט הֽוֹלְכִ֖ים לְהוֹרִ֥יד מִצְרָֽיְמָה
Genesis 37:28 (a,b)
a: And Midianite people, merchants, passed, and they pulled and lifted Joseph from the pit.
b: And they sold Joseph to teh Ishmaelites for twenty weights of silver. And they brough Joseph to Egypt.
וַיַּֽעַבְרוּ֩ אֲנָשִׁ֨ים מִדְיָנִ֜ים סֹֽחֲרִ֗ים וַיִּמְשְׁכוּ֙ וַיַּֽעֲל֤וּ אֶת־יוֹסֵף֙ 
מִן־הַבּ֔וֹר וַיִּמְכְּר֧וּ אֶת־יוֹסֵ֛ף לַיִּשְׁמְעֵאלִ֖ים בְּעֶשְׂרִ֣ים כָּ֑סֶף וַיָּבִ֥יאוּ אֶת־יוֹסֵ֖ף מִצְרָֽיְמָה
Genesis 41:46 (a,b)
a: And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood in front of Pharaoh, king of Egypt.
b: And Joseph went out from in front of Pharaoh and passed through all the land of Egypt.
וְיוֹסֵף֙ בֶּן־שְׁלשִׁ֣ים שָׁנָ֔ה בְּעָמְד֕וֹ לִפְנֵ֖י פַּרְעֹ֣ה מֶֽלֶךְ־מִצְרָ֑יִם 
וַיֵּצֵ֤א יוֹסֵף֙ מִלִּפְנֵ֣י פַרְעֹ֔ה וַיַּֽעֲבֹ֖ר בְּכָל־אֶ֥רֶץ מִצְרָֽיִם
Genesis 46:5 (a,b)
a: And Jacob got up from Beer-sheba.
b: And the children of Israel carried Jacob, their father, and their infants and their wives in the wagons that Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
וַיָּ֥קָם יַֽעֲקֹ֖ב מִבְּאֵ֣ר שָׁ֑בַע 
וַיִּשְׂא֨וּ בְנֵֽי־יִשְׂרָאֵ֜ל אֶת־יַֽעֲקֹ֣ב אֲבִיהֶ֗ם וְאֶת־טַפָּם֙ וְאֶת־נְשֵׁיהֶ֔ם בָּֽעֲגָל֕וֹת אֲשֶׁר־שָׁלַ֥ח פַּרְעֹ֖ה לָשֵׂ֥את אֹתֽוֹ
Genesis 47:27 (a,b)
a: And Israel lied in Egypt in the land of Goshen, and they held property in it.
b: And they were fruitful and multiplied very much.
וַיֵּ֧שֶׁב יִשְׂרָאֵ֛ל בְּאֶ֥רֶץ מִצְרַ֖יִם בְּאֶ֣רֶץ גּ֑שֶׁן וַיֵּאָֽחֲז֣וּ בָ֔הּ 
וַיִּפְר֥וּ וַיִּרְבּ֖וּ מְאֹֽד
Exodus 2:23 (a,b)
a: And it was after those many days, and the king of Egypt died.
b: And the children of Israel graoned from the work, and they cried out, and their wail went up to God from the work.
וַיְהִי֩ בַיָּמִ֨ים הָֽרַבִּ֜ים הָהֵ֗ם וַיָּ֨מָת֙ מֶ֣לֶךְ מִצְרַ֔יִם 
וַיֵּאָֽנְח֧וּ בְנֵֽי־יִשְׂרָאֵ֛ל מִן־הָֽעֲבֹדָ֖ה וַיִּזְעָ֑קוּ וַתַּ֧עַל שַׁוְעָתָ֛ם אֶל־הָֽאֱלֹהִ֖ים מִן־הָֽעֲבֹדָֽה
Exodus 3:4 (a,b)
a: And YHWH saw that he turned to see.
b: And God called to him from inside the bush, and He said, "Moses, Moses." And he said, "I'm here"
וַיַּ֥רְא יְהֹוָ֖ה כִּ֣י סָ֣ר לִרְא֑וֹת וַיִּקְרָא֩ אֵלָ֨יו 
אֱלֹהִ֜ים מִתּ֣וֹךְ הַסְּנֶ֗ה וַיֹּ֛אמֶר משֶׁ֥ה משֶׁ֖ה וַיֹּ֥אמֶר הִנֵּֽנִי
Exodus 4:20 (a,b)
a: And Moses took his wife and his sons and rode them on an ass, and he went back to the land of Egypt.
b: And Moses took the staff of God in his hand.
וַיִּקַּ֨ח משֶׁ֜ה אֶת־אִשְׁתּ֣וֹ וְאֶת־בָּנָ֗יו וַיַּרְכִּבֵם֙ עַל־הַֽחֲמֹ֔ר וַיָּ֖שָׁב אַ֣רְצָה מִצְרָ֑יִם וַיִּקַּ֥ח 
משֶׁ֛ה אֶת־מַטֵּ֥ה הָֽאֱלֹהִ֖ים בְּיָדֽוֹ
Exodus 4:21 (a,b)
a: And YHWH said to Moses, "When you're going to go back to Egypt, see all the wonders that I've set in your hand, and you shall do them in front of Pharaoh."
b: And I: I''ll strengthen his heart, and he won''t let the people go.
וַיֹּ֣אמֶר יְהֹוָה֘ אֶל־משֶׁה֒ בְּלֶכְתְּךָ֙ לָשׁ֣וּב מִצְרַ֔יְמָה רְאֵ֗ה כָּל־הַמֹּֽפְתִים֙ אֲשֶׁר־שַׂ֣מְתִּי בְיָדֶ֔ךָ וַֽעֲשִׂיתָ֖ם לִפְנֵ֣י פַרְעֹ֑ה 
וַֽאֲנִי֙ אֲחַזֵּ֣ק אֶת־לִבּ֔וֹ וְלֹ֥א יְשַׁלַּ֖ח אֶת־הָעָֽם
Exodus 7:20 (a,b)
a: And Moses and Aaron did so, as YHWH had commanded.
b: And he raised the staff and struck the waters that were in the Nile before Pharaoh''s eyes and before his servants'' eyes, and all the waters that were in the Nile were changed into blood.
וַיַּֽעֲשׂוּ־כֵן֩ משֶׁ֨ה וְאַֽהֲרֹ֜ן כַּֽאֲשֶׁ֣ר צִוָּ֣ה יְהֹוָ֗ה 
וַיָּ֤רֶם בַּמַּטֶּה֙ וַיַּ֤ךְ אֶת־הַמַּ֨יִם֙ אֲשֶׁ֣ר בַּיְאֹ֔ר לְעֵינֵ֣י פַרְעֹ֔ה וּלְעֵינֵ֖י עֲבָדָ֑יו וַיֵּהָֽפְכ֛וּ כָּל־הַמַּ֥יִם אֲשֶׁר־בַּיְאֹ֖ר לְדָֽם
Exodus 8:3 (a,b)
a: And the magicians did so with their charms.
b: And they brought up the frogs on the land of Egypt.
וַיַּֽעֲשׂוּ־כֵ֥ן הַֽחַרְטֻמִּ֖ים בְּלָֽטֵיהֶ֑ם 
וַיַּֽעֲל֥וּ אֶת־הַֽצְפַרְדְּעִ֖ים עַל־אֶ֥רֶץ מִצְרָֽיִם
Exodus 8:11 (a,b)
a: And Pharaoh saw that there was a break, and he made his heart heavy.
b: And he did not listen to them - as YHWH had spoken.
וַיַּ֣רְא פַּרְעֹ֗ה כִּ֤י הָֽיְתָה֙ הָֽרְוָחָ֔ה וְהַכְבֵּד֙ אֶת־לִבּ֔וֹ 
וְלֹ֥א שָׁמַ֖ע אֲלֵהֶ֑ם כַּֽאֲשֶׁ֖ר דִּבֶּ֥ר יְהֹוָֽה
Exodus 12:37 (a,b)
a: And the children of Israel traveled from Rameses to Succoth.
b: The men, apart from infants, were about six hundred thousand on foot. 
וַיִּסְע֧וּ בְנֵֽי־יִשְׂרָאֵ֛ל מֵֽרַעְמְסֵ֖ס סֻכֹּ֑תָה 
כְּשֵֽׁשׁ־מֵא֨וֹת אֶ֧לֶף רַגְלִ֛י הַגְּבָרִ֖ים לְבַד מִטָּֽף
Exodus 14:9 (a,b)
a: And Egypt pursued them.
b: And they caught up the them, camping by the seas - every chariot horse of Pharaoh and his horsemen and his army - at Pi-Hahiroth, in front of Baal-Zephon.
וַיִּרְדְּפ֨וּ מִצְרַ֜יִם אַֽחֲרֵיהֶ֗ם 
וַיַּשִּׂ֤יגוּ אוֹתָם֙ חֹנִ֣ים עַל־הַיָּ֔ם כָּל־סוּס֙ רֶ֣כֶב פַּרְעֹ֔ה וּפָֽרָשָׁ֖יו וְחֵיל֑וֹ עַל־פִּי֙ הַֽחִירֹ֔ת לִפְנֵ֖י בַּ֥עַל צְפֹֽן
Exodus 14:10 (a,b,c)
a: And Pharaoh came close!
b: And the children of Israel raised their eyes, and here was Egypt coming after them, and they were very afraid.
c: And the children of Israel cried out to YHWH
וּפַרְעֹ֖ה הִקְרִ֑יב 
וַיִּשְׂאוּ֩ בְנֵֽי־יִשְׂרָאֵ֨ל אֶת־עֵֽינֵיהֶ֜ם וְהִנֵּ֥ה מִצְרַ֣יִם נֹסֵ֣עַ אַֽחֲרֵיהֶ֗ם וַיִּֽירְאוּ֙ מְאֹ֔ד 
וַיִּצְעֲק֥וּ בְנֵֽי־יִשְׂרָאֵ֖ל אֶל־יְהֹוָֽה
Exodus 14:19 (a,b)
a: And the angel of God who was going in front of the camp of Israel moved and went behind them.
b: And the column of cloud went from in front of them and stood behind them.
וַיִּסַּ֞ע מַלְאַ֣ךְ הָֽאֱלֹהִ֗ים הַֽהֹלֵךְ֙ לִפְנֵי֙ מַֽחֲנֵ֣ה יִשְׂרָאֵ֔ל וַיֵּ֖לֶךְ מֵאַֽחֲרֵיהֶ֑ם 
וַיִּסַּ֞ע עַמּ֤וּד הֶֽעָנָן֙ מִפְּנֵיהֶ֔ם וַיַּֽעֲמֹ֖ד מֵאַֽחֲרֵיהֶֽם
Exodus 14:20 (a,b)
a: And it came between the camp of Egypt and the camp of Israel
b: And there was the cloud and darkness [for the Egyptians], while it [the column of fire] lit the night [for the Israelites], and one did not come near the other all night.
וַיָּבֹ֞א בֵּ֣ין מַֽחֲנֵ֣ה מִצְרַ֗יִם וּבֵין֙ מַֽחֲנֵ֣ה יִשְׂרָאֵ֔ל 
וַיְהִ֤י הֶֽעָנָן֙ וְהַח֔שֶׁךְ וַיָּ֖אֶר אֶת־הַלָּ֑יְלָה וְלֹֽא־קָרַ֥ב זֶ֛ה אֶל־זֶ֖ה כָּל־הַלָּֽיְלָה
Exodus 14:21 (a,b,c)
a: And Moses reached his hand out over the sea.
b: And YHWH drove back the sea with a strong east wind all night and turned the sea into dry ground.
c: And the water was split
וַיֵּ֨ט משֶׁ֣ה אֶת־יָדוֹ֘ עַל־הַיָּם֒ 
וַיּ֣וֹלֶךְ יְהֹוָ֣ה אֶת־הַ֠יָּ֠ם בְּר֨וּחַ קָדִ֤ים עַזָּה֙ כָּל־הַלַּ֔יְלָה וַיָּ֥שֶׂם אֶת־הַיָּ֖ם לֶחָֽרָבָ֑ה 
וַיִּבָּֽקְע֖וּ הַמָּֽיִם
Exodus 14:25 (a,b)
a: And turned its chariots'' wheel so that it drove it with heaviness.
b: And Egypt said, "Let me flee from Israel, because YHWH is fighting for them and against Egypt!"
וַיָּ֗סַר אֵ֚ת אֹפַ֣ן מַרְכְּבֹתָ֔יו וַיְנַֽהֲגֵ֖הוּ בִּכְבֵדֻ֑ת 
וַיֹּ֣אמֶר מִצְרַ֗יִם אָנ֨וּסָה֙ מִפְּנֵ֣י יִשְׂרָאֵ֔ל כִּ֣י יְהֹוָ֔ה נִלְחָ֥ם לָהֶ֖ם בְּמִצְרָֽיִם
Exodus 14:27 (a,b)
a: And Moses reached his hand out over the sea.
b: And the sea went back to its strong flow toward morning, and Egypt was fleeing toward it. And YHWH tossed the Egyptians into the sea.
וַיֵּט֩ משֶׁ֨ה אֶת־יָד֜וֹ עַל־הַיָּ֗ם 
וַיָּ֨שָׁב הַיָּ֜ם לִפְנ֥וֹת בֹּ֨קֶר֙ לְאֵ֣יתָנ֔וֹ וּמִצְרַ֖יִם נָסִ֣ים לִקְרָאת֑וֹ וַיְנַעֵ֧ר יְהֹוָ֛ה אֶת־מִצְרַ֖יִם בְּת֥וֹךְ הַיָּֽם
Exodus 15:22 (a,b)
a: And Moses had Israel travel from the Red Sea, and they went out to the wilderness of Shur.
b: And they went three days in the wilderness. And they did not find water.
וַיַּסַּ֨ע משֶׁ֤ה אֶת־יִשְׂרָאֵל֙ מִיַּם־ס֔וּף וַיֵּֽצְא֖וּ אֶל־מִדְבַּר־שׁ֑וּר 
וַיֵּֽלְכ֧וּ שְׁלֽשֶׁת־יָמִ֛ים בַּמִּדְבָּ֖ר וְלֹא־מָ֥צְאוּ מָֽיִם
Exodus 15:25 (a,b)
a: And he cried to YHWH, and YHWH showed him a tree, and he threw it into the water, and the water sweetened.
b: He set law and judgement for them there, and He tested them there.
וַיִּצְעַ֣ק אֶל־יְהֹוָ֗ה וַיּוֹרֵ֤הוּ יְהֹוָה֙ עֵ֔ץ וַיַּשְׁלֵךְ֙ אֶל־הַמַּ֔יִם וַיִּמְתְּק֖וּ 
הַמָּ֑יִם שָׁ֣ם שָׂ֥ם ל֛וֹ חֹ֥ק וּמִשְׁפָּ֖ט וְשָׁ֥ם נִסָּֽהוּ
Exodus 16:35 (a,b)
a: And the children of Israel ate the manna forty years until they came to a settle land.
b: They ate the manna until they came to the edge of the land of Canaan.
וּבְנֵ֣י יִשְׂרָאֵ֗ל אָֽכְל֤וּ אֶת־הַמָּן֙ אַרְבָּעִ֣ים שָׁנָ֔ה עַד־בֹּאָ֖ם אֶל־אֶ֣רֶץ 
נוֹשָׁ֑בֶת אֶת־הַמָּן֙ אָֽכְל֔וּ עַד־בֹּאָ֕ם אֶל־קְצֵ֖ה אֶ֥רֶץ כְּנָֽעַן
Exodus 19:2 (a,b)
a: And they traveled from Rephidim and came to the wilderness of Sinai and camped in the wilderness.
b: And Israel camped there opposite of the mountain.
וַיִּסְע֣וּ מֵֽרְפִידִ֗ים וַיָּבֹ֨אוּ֙ מִדְבַּ֣ר סִינַ֔י וַיַּֽחֲנ֖וּ בַּמִּדְבָּ֑ר 
וַיִּֽחַן־שָׁ֥ם יִשְׂרָאֵ֖ל נֶ֥גֶד הָהָֽר
Exodus 19:16 (a,b)
a: And it was on the third day, when it was morning.
b: And it was: thunders and lighting and a heavy cloud on the mountain, and a sound of a horn, very strong. And the entire people that was in the camp trembled.
וַיְהִי֩ בַיּ֨וֹם הַשְּׁלִישִׁ֜י בִּֽהְיֹ֣ת הַבֹּ֗קֶר 
וַיְהִי֩ קֹלֹ֨ת וּבְרָקִ֜ים וְעָנָ֤ן כָּבֵד֙ עַל־הָהָ֔ר וְקֹ֥ל שֹׁפָ֖ר חָזָ֣ק מְאֹ֑ד וַיֶּֽחֱרַ֥ד כָּל־הָעָ֖ם אֲשֶׁ֥ר בַּמַּֽחֲנֶֽה
Exodus 24:15 (a,b)
a: And Moses went up to the mountain.
b: And the cloud covered the mountain
וַיַּ֥עַל משֶׁ֖ה אֶל־הָהָ֑ר 
וַיְכַ֥ס הֶֽעָנָ֖ן אֶת־הָהָֽר
Exodus 24:18 (a,b)
a: And Moses came inside the cloud and went up into the mountain
b: And Moses was in the mountain forty days and forty nights.
וַיָּבֹ֥א משֶׁ֛ה בְּת֥וֹךְ הֶֽעָנָ֖ן וַיַּ֣עַל אֶל־הָהָ֑ר 
וַיְהִ֤י משֶׁה֙ בָּהָ֔ר אַרְבָּעִ֣ים י֔וֹם וְאַרְבָּעִ֖ים לָֽיְלָה
Exodus 34:1 (a,b)
a: And YHWH said to Moses, "Carve two tablets of stones"
b: Like the first ones, and I''ll write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you shattered.
וַיֹּ֤אמֶר יְהֹוָה֙ אֶל־משֶׁ֔ה פְּסָל־לְךָ֛ שְׁנֵֽי־לֻחֹ֥ת אֲבָנִ֖ים 
כָּרִֽאשֹׁנִ֑ים וְכָֽתַבְתִּי֙ עַל־הַלֻּחֹ֔ת אֶת־הַ֨דְּבָרִ֔ים אֲשֶׁ֥ר הָי֛וּ עַל־הַלֻּחֹ֥ת הָרִֽאשֹׁנִ֖ים אֲשֶׁ֥ר שִׁבַּֽרְתָּ
Numbers 16:1 (a,b)
a: And Korah son of Izhar son of Kohath son of Levi,
b: and Dathan and Abiram, sons of Eliab, and On, son of Peleth, sons of Reuben
וַיִּקַּ֣ח קֹ֔רַח בֶּן־יִצְהָ֥ר בֶּן־קְהָ֖ת בֶּן־לֵוִ֑י 
וְדָתָ֨ן וַֽאֲבִירָ֜ם בְּנֵ֧י אֱלִיאָ֛ב וְא֥וֹן בֶּן־פֶּ֖לֶת בְּנֵ֥י רְאוּבֵֽן
Numbers 16:2 (a,b)
a: And got up in front of Moses -
b: And two hundred fifty people from the children of Israel, chieftains of the congregation, prominent ones of the assembly, people of repute
וַיָּקֻ֨מוּ֙ לִפְנֵ֣י משֶׁ֔ה 
וַֽאֲנָשִׁ֥ים מִבְּנֵֽי־יִשְׂרָאֵ֖ל חֲמִשִּׁ֣ים וּמָאתָ֑יִם נְשִׂיאֵ֥י עֵדָ֛ה קְרִאֵ֥י מוֹעֵ֖ד אַנְשֵׁי־שֵֽׁם
Numbers 16:27 (a,b)
a: And they got up from around the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan and Abiram
b: And Dathan and Abiram came out, standing at the entrance of their tents, and their wives and their children and their infants
וַיֵּֽעָל֗וּ מֵעַ֧ל מִשְׁכַּן־קֹ֛רַח דָּתָ֥ן וַֽאֲבִירָ֖ם מִסָּבִ֑יב 
וְדָתָ֨ן וַֽאֲבִירָ֜ם יָֽצְא֣וּ נִצָּבִ֗ים פֶּ֚תַח אָֽהֳלֵיהֶ֔ם וּנְשֵׁיהֶ֥ם וּבְנֵיהֶ֖ם וְטַפָּֽם
Numbers 16:32 (a,b)
a: And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them and their households
b: and all the people who were with Korah and all the property.
וַתִּפְתַּ֤ח הָאָ֨רֶץ֙ אֶת־פִּ֔יהָ וַתִּבְלַ֥ע אֹתָ֖ם וְאֶת־בָּֽתֵּיהֶ֑ם 
וְאֵ֤ת כָּל־הָֽאָדָם֙ אֲשֶׁ֣ר לְקֹ֔רַח וְאֵ֖ת כָּל־הָֽרְכֽוּשׁ
Numbers 20:1 (a,b)
a: And the children of Israel, all the congregation, came to the wilderness of Zin in the first month, and the people stayed in Kadesh.
b: And Miriam died there and was buried there.
וַיָּבֹ֣אוּ בְנֵֽי־יִ֠שְׂרָאֵ֠ל כָּל־הָ֨עֵדָ֤ה מִדְבַּר־צִן֙ בַּחֹ֣דֶשׁ הָֽרִאשׁ֔וֹן וַיֵּ֥שֶׁב הָעָ֖ם בְּקָדֵ֑שׁ 
וַתָּ֤מָת שָׁם֙ מִרְיָ֔ם וַתִּקָּבֵ֖ר שָֽׁם
Numbers 21:4 (a,b)
a: And they traveled from Mount Hor by way of the Red Sea road to go around the land of Edom.
b: And the people''s soul was getting short on the way.
וַיִּסְע֞וּ מֵהֹ֤ר הָהָר֙ דֶּ֣רֶךְ יַם־ס֔וּף לִסְבֹ֖ב אֶת־אֶ֣רֶץ אֱד֑וֹם 
וַתִּקְצַ֥ר נֶֽפֶשׁ־הָעָ֖ם בַּדָּֽרֶךְ